README.md, before:

LexxpavlovPageBundle
=================

This bundle helps you to manage your static pages in Symfony2 project.

The bundle has a page entity with fields:
* title - the title of page
* content - html content. May use ckeditor for easy wysiwyg edit of content
* slug - use as url of page. May be autogenerated while create a new page
* published and publishedAt
* meta: keywords and description

If you use SonataAdminBundle, this bundle automatically adds an entity to it.

Installation (>=Symfony 2.1)
------------

### Composer

Download LexxpavlovPageBundle and its dependencies to the vendor directory. The bundle has a [StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle](https://github.com/stof/StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle) as required dependency and [IvoryCKEditorBundle](https://github.com/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle) as optional dependency.

You can use Composer for the automated process:

```bash
$ php composer.phar require lexxpavlov/pagebundle:dev-master
```

or manually add link to bundle into your `composer.json` and run `$ php composer.phar update`:

```json
{
    "require" : {
        "lexxpavlov/pagebundle": "dev-master"
    },
}
```

Composer will install bundle to `vendor/lexxpavlov` directory. Bundle StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle will be installed automatically, if it didn't install earlier.

### Adding bundle to your application kernel

```php
// app/AppKernel.php

public function registerBundles()
{
    $bundles = array(
        // ...
        new Stof\DoctrineExtensionsBundle\StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle(),
        new Lexxpavlov\PageBundle\LexxpavlovPageBundle(),
        // ...
    );
}
```

If you are already have `StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle` in the your `AppKernel`, you don't need to add its twice.

Configuration
-------------

First you must create your own page entity class. It's easy to make by extend base page from bundle.

```php
<?php

namespace App\YourBundle\Entity;

use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

use Lexxpavlov\PageBundle\Entity\Page as BasePage;

/**
 * @ORM\Entity()
 */
class Page extends BasePage
{
    // Be free to add your fields here
}

```

Here is the default configuration for the bundle:

```yaml
stof_doctrine_extensions:
    default_locale: %locale%
    orm:
        default:
            timestampable: true

lexxpavlov_page:
    entity_class: App\YourBundle\Entity\Page
```

This will activate doctrine Timestampable extension. Also you may activate Sluggable and Blameable extensions (see below). See more about doctrine extensions at [documentation](https://github.com/stof/StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle/blob/master/Resources/doc/index.rst).

Now you need create the table in your database:

```bash
$ php app/console doctrine:schema:update --dump-sql
```

This will show SQL query for creating the table in the database. You may manually run this query.

> **Note.** You may also execute `php app/console doctrine:schema:update --force` command, and Doctrine will create needed table for you. But I strongly recommend you to execute `--dump-sql` first and check SQL, which Doctrine will execute.

Usage
-----

If you use SonataAdminBundle, then you are already have admin tool for creating new pages. Otherwise you need to write your own creating tool, and here you may use predefined form:
```php
$form = $this->createForm('lexxpavlov_page');
```

There is the sample code for showing page, controller class and twig template. There are 3 different versions of action code, that doing the same - get page from database and show it in the twig template. Choose one or write your code.

Controller:
```php
{# src/App/YourBundle/Controller/DefaultController.php #}

namespace App\YourBundle\Controller;

use Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Controller\Controller;
use Sensio\Bundle\FrameworkExtraBundle\Configuration\Route;
use Sensio\Bundle\FrameworkExtraBundle\Configuration\Template;

use App\YourBundle\Entity\Page;

class DefaultController extends Controller
{
    /**
     * @Route("/page/{id}.html")
     * @Template()
     */
    public function pageAction(Page $page)
    {
    }
    
    // or find by slug:
    
    /**
     * @Route("/page/{slug}")
     * @Template("AppYourBundle:Default:page.html.twig")
     */
    public function slugAction(Page $page)
    {
    }
    
    // or find from repository
    
    /**
     * @Route("/page-find/{id}")
     * @Template("AppYourBundle:Default:page.html.twig")
     */
    public function findAction($id)
    {
        $repository = $this->getDoctrine()->getRepository('AppYourBundle:Page');
        
        if (is_numeric($id)) {
            $page = $repository->find($id);
        } else {
            $page = $repository->findOneBySlug($id);
        }
        
        return array('page' => $page);
    }
}
```

And template:

```twig
{# src/App/YourBundle/Resources/views/Default/page.html.twig #}

{% extends '::layout.html.twig'%}

{% block meta %}
{% if page.metaKeywords is defined %}
    <meta name="Keywords" content="{{ page.metaKeywords }}">
{% endif %}
{% if page.metaDescription is defined %}
    <meta name="Description" content="{{ page.metaDescription }}">
{% endif %}
{% endblock %}

{% block body %}

<div class="page">
    <h1 class="page-title">{{ page.title }}</h1>
    <div class="page-info">Created at {{ page.createdAt|date('d.m.Y') }} by {{ page.createdBy.username }}</div>
    <div class="page-content">{{ page.content|raw }}</div>
</div>

{% endblock %}
```

> **Note.** Do not forget add a `meta` block to the `<head>` section of `layout.html.twig`.

The page with id=1 and slug=test will be shown by controller at these urls:

* /page/1.html
* /page/test
* /page-find/1
* /page-find/test

Advanced configuration
----------------------

### Full configuration

```yaml
lexxpavlov_page:
    entity_class: App\SiteBundle\Entity\Page
    admin_class: Lexxpavlov\PageBundle\Admin\PageAdmin # or false to disable registering of sonata admin service
    content_type: ckeditor # use your form type for content field, e.g. textarea or ckeditor
```

`ckeditor` form type is added by [IvoryCKEditorBundle](https://github.com/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle).

### Activate autogeneration of slug field

LexxpavlovPageBundle marks `slug` field as `@Gedmo\Slug`. You need to activate its listener in StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle config:

```yaml
stof_doctrine_extensions:
    # ...
    orm:
        default:
            sluggable: true
            # ...
```

StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle has a tool for build slug from any local string to latin-only string (urlizer). Urlizer gets any UTF-8 string, urlizes it and saves to slug field. Unfortunately, this automatic tool produce not perfect result, and you may want to write your own urlizer for your language and point that urlizer for use by Sluggable extension. You may see [extension documentation](https://github.com/Atlantic18/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/sluggable.md#custom-transliterator) and code of [listener](https://github.com/lexxpavlov/PageBundle/blob/master/Listener/RuSluggableListener.php) and [transliterator](https://github.com/lexxpavlov/PageBundle/blob/master/Urlizer/Ru.php) in this bundle.

```yaml
stof_doctrine_extensions:
    class:
        sluggable: Lexxpavlov\PageBundle\Listener\RuSluggableListener
    # ...
```

### Append autoupdated user fields

You may add `createdBy` and `updatedBy` fields to your entity and use Blameable doctrine extension. Make next changes to your page entity class:

```php
<?php

namespace App\YourBundle\Entity;

use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

use Gedmo\Mapping\Annotation as Gedmo;
use Lexxpavlov\PageBundle\Entity\Page as BasePage;

use App\YourBundle\Entity\User;

/**
 * @ORM\Entity()
 */
class Page extends BasePage
{
    
    /**
     * @var User
     *
     * @Gedmo\Blameable(on="create")
     * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="User")
     * @ORM\JoinColumn(name="created_by", referencedColumnName="id")
     */
    protected $createdBy;

    /**
     * @var User
     *
     * @Gedmo\Blameable(on="update")
     * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="User")
     * @ORM\JoinColumn(name="updated_by", referencedColumnName="id")
     */
    protected $updatedBy;

    
    /**
     * Set user, that updated entity
     *
     * @param User $updatedBy
     * @return Page
     */
    public function setUpdatedBy($updatedBy)
    {
        $this->updatedBy = $updatedBy;

        return $this;
    }

    /**
     * Get user, that updated entity
     *
     * @return User 
     */
    public function getUpdatedBy()
    {
        return $this->updatedBy;
    }
    
    /**
     * Set user, that created entity
     *
     * @param User $createdBy
     * @return Page
     */
    public function setCreatedBy($createdBy)
    {
        $this->createdby = $createdBy;

        return $this;
    }

    /**
     * Get user, that created entity
     *
     * @return User 
     */
    public function getCreatedBy()
    {
        return $this->createdBy;
    }

}

```

And activate Blameable extension in StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle config:

```yaml
stof_doctrine_extensions:
    # ...
    orm:
        default:
            blameable: true
            # ...
```

Commit message:

update documentation about sluggable extension

README.md, after:

LexxpavlovPageBundle
=================

This bundle helps you to manage your static pages in Symfony2 project.

The bundle has a page entity with fields:
* title - the title of page
* content - html content. May use ckeditor for easy wysiwyg edit of content
* slug - use as url of page. May be autogenerated while create a new page
* published and publishedAt
* meta: keywords and description

If you use SonataAdminBundle, this bundle automatically adds an entity to it.

Installation (>=Symfony 2.1)
------------

### Composer

Download LexxpavlovPageBundle and its dependencies to the vendor directory. The bundle has a [StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle](https://github.com/stof/StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle) as required dependency and [IvoryCKEditorBundle](https://github.com/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle) as optional dependency.

You can use Composer for the automated process:

```bash
$ php composer.phar require lexxpavlov/pagebundle:dev-master
```

or manually add link to bundle into your `composer.json` and run `$ php composer.phar update`:

```json
{
    "require" : {
        "lexxpavlov/pagebundle": "dev-master"
    },
}
```

Composer will install bundle to `vendor/lexxpavlov` directory. Bundle StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle will be installed automatically, if it didn't install earlier.

### Adding bundle to your application kernel

```php
// app/AppKernel.php

public function registerBundles()
{
    $bundles = array(
        // ...
        new Stof\DoctrineExtensionsBundle\StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle(),
        new Lexxpavlov\PageBundle\LexxpavlovPageBundle(),
        // ...
    );
}
```

If you are already have `StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle` in the your `AppKernel`, you don't need to add its twice.

Configuration
-------------

First you must create your own page entity class. It's easy to make by extend base page from bundle.

```php
<?php

namespace App\YourBundle\Entity;

use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

use Lexxpavlov\PageBundle\Entity\Page as BasePage;

/**
 * @ORM\Entity()
 */
class Page extends BasePage
{
    // Be free to add your fields here
}

```

Here is the default configuration for the bundle:

```yaml
stof_doctrine_extensions:
    default_locale: %locale%
    orm:
        default:
            timestampable: true

lexxpavlov_page:
    entity_class: App\YourBundle\Entity\Page
```

This will activate doctrine Timestampable extension. Also you may activate Sluggable and Blameable extensions (see below). See more about doctrine extensions at [documentation](https://github.com/stof/StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle/blob/master/Resources/doc/index.rst).

Now you need create the table in your database:

```bash
$ php app/console doctrine:schema:update --dump-sql
```

This will show SQL query for creating the table in the database. You may manually run this query.

> **Note.** You may also execute `php app/console doctrine:schema:update --force` command, and Doctrine will create needed table for you. But I strongly recommend you to execute `--dump-sql` first and check SQL, which Doctrine will execute.

Usage
-----

If you use SonataAdminBundle, then you are already have admin tool for creating new pages. Otherwise you need to write your own creating tool, and here you may use predefined form:
```php
$form = $this->createForm('lexxpavlov_page');
```

There is the sample code for showing page, controller class and twig template. There are 3 different versions of action code, that doing the same - get page from database and show it in the twig template. Choose one or write your code.

Controller:
```php
{# src/App/YourBundle/Controller/DefaultController.php #}

namespace App\YourBundle\Controller;

use Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Controller\Controller;
use Sensio\Bundle\FrameworkExtraBundle\Configuration\Route;
use Sensio\Bundle\FrameworkExtraBundle\Configuration\Template;

use App\YourBundle\Entity\Page;

class DefaultController extends Controller
{
    /**
     * @Route("/page/{id}.html")
     * @Template()
     */
    public function pageAction(Page $page)
    {
    }
    
    // or find by slug:
    
    /**
     * @Route("/page/{slug}")
     * @Template("AppYourBundle:Default:page.html.twig")
     */
    public function slugAction(Page $page)
    {
    }
    
    // or find from repository
    
    /**
     * @Route("/page-find/{id}")
     * @Template("AppYourBundle:Default:page.html.twig")
     */
    public function findAction($id)
    {
        $repository = $this->getDoctrine()->getRepository('AppYourBundle:Page');
        
        if (is_numeric($id)) {
            $page = $repository->find($id);
        } else {
            $page = $repository->findOneBySlug($id);
        }
        
        return array('page' => $page);
    }
}
```

And template:

```twig
{# src/App/YourBundle/Resources/views/Default/page.html.twig #}

{% extends '::layout.html.twig'%}

{% block meta %}
{% if page.metaKeywords is defined %}
    <meta name="Keywords" content="{{ page.metaKeywords }}">
{% endif %}
{% if page.metaDescription is defined %}
    <meta name="Description" content="{{ page.metaDescription }}">
{% endif %}
{% endblock %}

{% block body %}

<div class="page">
    <h1 class="page-title">{{ page.title }}</h1>
    <div class="page-info">Created at {{ page.createdAt|date('d.m.Y') }} by {{ page.createdBy.username }}</div>
    <div class="page-content">{{ page.content|raw }}</div>
</div>

{% endblock %}
```

> **Note.** Do not forget add a `meta` block to the `<head>` section of `layout.html.twig`.

The page with id=1 and slug=test will be shown by controller at these urls:

* /page/1.html
* /page/test
* /page-find/1
* /page-find/test

Advanced configuration
----------------------

### Full configuration

```yaml
lexxpavlov_page:
    entity_class: App\SiteBundle\Entity\Page
    admin_class: Lexxpavlov\PageBundle\Admin\PageAdmin # or false to disable registering of sonata admin service
    content_type: ckeditor # use your form type for content field, e.g. textarea or ckeditor
```

`ckeditor` form type is added by [IvoryCKEditorBundle](https://github.com/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle).

### Activate autogeneration of slug field

LexxpavlovPageBundle marks `slug` field as `@Gedmo\Slug`. You need to activate its listener in StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle config:

```yaml
stof_doctrine_extensions:
    # ...
    orm:
        default:
            sluggable: true
            # ...
```

StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle has a tool for build slug from any local string to latin-only string (urlizer). Urlizer gets any UTF-8 string, urlizes it and saves to slug field. For automatic filling you must left slug field blank while create or update the page. If slug field isn't blank, than Sluggable doesn't work.

Unfortunately, this automatic tool produce not perfect result, and you may want to write your own urlizer for your language and set up Sluggable extension to use that urlizer. You may see [extension documentation](https://github.com/Atlantic18/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/sluggable.md#custom-transliterator) and code of [listener](https://github.com/lexxpavlov/PageBundle/blob/master/Listener/RuSluggableListener.php) and [transliterator](https://github.com/lexxpavlov/PageBundle/blob/master/Urlizer/Ru.php) in this bundle.

This bundle has sample urlizer for Russian language:
```yaml
stof_doctrine_extensions:
    class:
        sluggable: Lexxpavlov\PageBundle\Listener\RuSluggableListener
    # ...
```

### Append autoupdating user fields

You may add `createdBy` and `updatedBy` fields to your entity and use Blameable doctrine extension. Make next changes to your page entity class:

```php
<?php

namespace App\YourBundle\Entity;

use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

use Gedmo\Mapping\Annotation as Gedmo;
use Lexxpavlov\PageBundle\Entity\Page as BasePage;

use App\YourBundle\Entity\User;

/**
 * @ORM\Entity()
 */
class Page extends BasePage
{
    
    /**
     * @var User
     *
     * @Gedmo\Blameable(on="create")
     * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="User")
     * @ORM\JoinColumn(name="created_by", referencedColumnName="id")
     */
    protected $createdBy;

    /**
     * @var User
     *
     * @Gedmo\Blameable(on="update")
     * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="User")
     * @ORM\JoinColumn(name="updated_by", referencedColumnName="id")
     */
    protected $updatedBy;

    
    /**
     * Set user, that updated entity
     *
     * @param User $updatedBy
     * @return Page
     */
    public function setUpdatedBy($updatedBy)
    {
        $this->updatedBy = $updatedBy;

        return $this;
    }

    /**
     * Get user, that updated entity
     *
     * @return User 
     */
    public function getUpdatedBy()
    {
        return $this->updatedBy;
    }
    
    /**
     * Set user, that created entity
     *
     * @param User $createdBy
     * @return Page
     */
    public function setCreatedBy($createdBy)
    {
        $this->createdby = $createdBy;

        return $this;
    }

    /**
     * Get user, that created entity
     *
     * @return User 
     */
    public function getCreatedBy()
    {
        return $this->createdBy;
    }

}

```

And activate Blameable extension in StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle config:

```yaml
stof_doctrine_extensions:
    # ...
    orm:
        default:
            blameable: true
            # ...
```
